README.md, before:

# Create your library

Boilerplate for creating NPM library, config free.


&nbsp;

&nbsp;

## Setup and usage

### Setup

1. Simply [`use this template.`](https://github.com/new?template_name=npm-library-boilerplate&template_owner=MengLinMaker)

2. Clone your template locally.

3. Install node dependencies using `pnpm`:

```Bash
pnpm i
```

4. Provide `NPM_TOKEN` repository secret to GitHub Setting for deployment.

### Publish npm library

1. Create new changeset and follow prompts:

```Bash
pnpm changeset
```

2. Add pull request to `main` branch.

3. After accepting pull request to `main`, a new pull request should be generated via `CD.yml`.

4. The maintainer needs to accept the new pull request so the package is published.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

## Features

### Enforce `pnpm` for consistency

To achieve consistency for devs, use of `pnpm` is enforced with a `package.json` script:

```Json
"preinstall": "npx only-allow pnpm"
```

### Git hook with formatting and linting

`simple-git-hooks` is automatically setup on install via a `package.json` script:

```Json
"postinstall": "simple-git-hooks"
```

This repo uses:

- `biome` for formatting and some linting. Over 95% prettier compatability.
- `eslint` for linting.
  - `@eslint/js` plugin for JavaScript rules.
  - `typescript-eslint` for TypeScript rules.
  - `eslint-plugin-compat` for detecting browser compatability issues.

_Note: `.npmrc` config `node-linker=hoisted` is necessary to overcome early postinstall bug_

### Continuous integration and delivery

CI should work without configuration as long as linting, testing and building are successful.

CD is currectly setup for public release and only publishes on `main` branch after `CI` workflow succeeds - refer to `.changeset/config.json` and `.github/workflows/CI.yml`.

### Modern testing library

`vitest` is designed to be compatable with ECMAScript Modules (ESM), which works directly in browsers. For new libraries this is the recommended method of exporting JavaScript modules.

Does this really matter? - probably not. You can also use `jest`.

_Note: Compatability between browsers and JavaScript runtimes is generally difficult anyways._

### Easy build config

Bundling is achieved with `tsup` and the output format is validated with `@arethetypeswrong/cli`.

Commit message:

docs: doc use of  and  for commit guide

README.md, after:

# Create your library

Boilerplate for creating NPM library, config free.


&nbsp;

&nbsp;

## Setup and usage

### Setup

1. Simply [`use this template.`](https://github.com/new?template_name=npm-library-boilerplate&template_owner=MengLinMaker)

2. Clone your template locally.

3. Install node dependencies using `pnpm`:

```Bash
pnpm i
```

4. Provide `NPM_TOKEN` repository secret to GitHub Setting for deployment.

### Publish npm library

1. Create new changeset and follow prompts:

```Bash
pnpm changeset
```

2. Add pull request to `main` branch.

3. After accepting pull request to `main`, a new pull request should be generated via `CD.yml`.

4. The maintainer needs to accept the new pull request so the package is published.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

## Features

### Enforce `pnpm` for consistency

To achieve consistency for devs, use of `pnpm` is enforced with a `package.json` script:

```Json
"preinstall": "npx only-allow pnpm"
```

### Enforce conventional commits format

Lint the use of conventional commits with `@commitlint/cli`.

A helper script `pnpm commit` is included to guide contributors through commits - `czg` and `cz-git`

### Git hook with formatting and linting

`simple-git-hooks` is automatically setup on install via a `package.json` script:

```Json
"postinstall": "simple-git-hooks"
```

This repo uses:

- `biome` for formatting and some linting. Over 95% prettier compatability.
- `eslint` for linting.
  - `@eslint/js` plugin for JavaScript rules.
  - `typescript-eslint` for TypeScript rules.
  - `eslint-plugin-compat` for detecting browser compatability issues.

_Note: `.npmrc` config `node-linker=hoisted` is necessary to overcome early postinstall bug_

### Continuous integration and delivery

CI should work without configuration as long as linting, testing and building are successful.

CD is currectly setup for public release and only publishes on `main` branch after `CI` workflow succeeds - refer to `.changeset/config.json` and `.github/workflows/CI.yml`.

### Modern testing library

`vitest` is designed to be compatable with ECMAScript Modules (ESM), which works directly in browsers. For new libraries this is the recommended method of exporting JavaScript modules.

Does this really matter? - probably not. You can also use `jest`.

_Note: Compatability between browsers and JavaScript runtimes is generally difficult anyways._

### Easy build config

Bundling is achieved with `tsup` and the output format is validated with `@arethetypeswrong/cli`.
